# user_oidc

OIDC connect user backend for Nextcloud

## General usage
See [Nextcloud and OpenID-Connect](https://www.schiessle.org/articles/2020/07/26/nextcloud-and-openid-connect/)
for a proper jumpstart.

### User IDs

The OIDC backend will ensure that user ids are unique even when multiple providers would report the same user
id to ensure that a user cannot identify for the same Nextcloud account through different providers.
Therefore, a hash of the provider id and the user id is used. This behaviour can be turned off in the provider options.

## Commandline settings
The app could also be configured by commandline.

### Provider entries
Providers are located by provider identifier.

To list all configured providers, use:
```
sudo -u www-data php /var/www/nextcloud/occ user_oidc:provider
```

To show detailed provider configuration, use:
```
sudo -u www-data php /var/www/nextcloud/occ user_oidc:provider demoprovider
```

A provider is created if none with the given identifier exists and all parameters are given:
```
sudo -u www-data php /var/www/nextcloud/occ user_oidc:provider demoprovider --clientid="WBXCa003871" \
    --clientsecret="lbXy***********" --discoveryuri="https://accounts.example.com/openid-configuration"
```

Attribute mappings can be optionally specified. For more details refer to `occ user_oidc:provider --help`.

To delete a provider, use:
```
sudo -u www-data php /var/www/nextcloud/occ user_oidc:provider:remove demoprovider
  Are you sure you want to delete OpenID Provider demoprovider
  and may invalidate all assiciated user accounts.
```
To skip the confirmation, use `--force`.

***Warning***: be careful with the deletion of a provider because in some setup, this invalidates access to all
NextCloud accounts associated with this provider.


### ID4me option
ID4me is an application setting switch which is configurable as normal Nextcloud app setting:
```
sudo -u www-data php /var/www/nextcloud/occ config:app:set --value=1 user_oidc id4me_enabled
```

### Disable other login methods
If there is only one OIDC provider configured, it can be made the default login
method and the user would get redirected to the provider immediately for the
login. Admins can still use the regular login through adding the `?direct=1`
parameter to the login URL.

```bash
sudo -u www-data php var/www/nextcloud/occ config:app:set --value=0 user_oidc allow_multiple_user_backends
```

### UserInfo request for Bearer token validation

The OIDC tokens used to make API call to Nextcloud might have been generated by an external entity.
It is possible that they don't contain the user ID attribute. In this case, this attribute
can be requested to the provider's `userinfo` endpoint.

Add this to `config.php` to enable such extra validation step:
``` php
'user_oidc' => [
    'userinfo_bearer_validation' => true,
],
```

If you only want the token to be validated against the `userinfo` endpoint,
it is possible to disable the classic "self-encoded" validation:
``` php
'user_oidc' => [
    'userinfo_bearer_validation' => true,
    'selfencoded_bearer_validation' => false,
],
```

## Building the app

Requirements for building:
- Node.js 14
- NPM 7
- PHP
- composer

The app uses [krankerl](https://github.com/ChristophWurst/krankerl) to build the release archive from the git repository.
The release will be put into `build/artifacts/` when running the `krankerl package`.

The app can also be built without krankerl by manually running:
```
composer install --no-dev -o
npm ci
npm run build
```

On Ubuntu 20.04, a possible way to get build working is with matching npm and node versions is:
```
sudo apt-get remove nodejs
sudo curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo -E bash -
sudo apt-get install nodejs
sudo npm install -g npm@7
```


